Now that we have created those starting data arrays that are going to keep track of the state of our
maze we can start to implement our actual algorithm.
So step one is to pick a random starting cell to pick a random starting cell.
We essentially need some starting dimensions or index that points into the grid array so if this is
our maze right here we currently have three rows and three columns.
So to pick a random starting cell I need the index of some row in column inside of here.
That essentially means we just have to generate a value between 0 into so maybe we start off with 0
and then we need another 0 into.
So maybe start off with zero as well.
So this would mean rows 0 and column 0.
That would be right there if we instead got something like a row of two and a column of 1 then we would
go to wrote 2 which is right there and column 1 which is right there remember we're starting off at
zero here because we're using array index notation.
And so with the right index notation we have 0 1 and 2 and 0 1 and 2 so to generate these numbers we
essentially just have to take a look at that cell's variable that we just created.
We're going to multiply it by a random number and then we're going to take the around that number down
to the lowest integer so let's get to it back inside my editor right after we create the horizontals
array I'm going to create a new variable called Start row and that's going to be math dot floor of math
dot random times cells and I'm going to repeat that same calculation for my starting column as well
so now if we console logged out those variables of start row and start column that's going to tell us
exactly where we're going to start to iteration at.
So as usual quick test your refresh and we get 1 and 3.
That's OK if you recall just a second ago I had changed cells up here to five.
I'm gonna take that back down to three really quickly just to stay in line with the diagram that I just
showed you.
Now if I say this again now we are going to get some realistic values.
So this would mean start iteration at 0 0 0 2 1 0 and so on.
We can keep refreshing it's going to show us these different starting points.
So that's a good start.
So now that we've got that starting point I'm going to define a function that we're going to call over
and over with this starting row and starting column and inside that function we're going to go through
this algorithm where we're going to go through each these steps that we just discussed right here I'm
going to make a function called step through cell.
That's a ridiculous name.
If you think of a better name for it feel free to do so in my original notes for this I called it recurs
because we're going to eventually do some recursion but honestly call it whatever you want just make
sure that it's kind of clear that this is going to be iterating through our maze or a collection of
cells or whatever else so when we call this function we're going to pass in some row in column that
we want to visit inside of our grid.
Then right after step three cell I'm going to make sure that I call it right away with start row and
start column.
It's all just step Roussel pass on my star row and start column so then inside of here is where we're
going to start to put together all of our logic.
First begin by putting a couple of comments inside of here just to guide myself and make sure they put
down the correct sequence of steps.
I'm going to generally be using this right here as a template for what I need to do inside of this function
so to get started I'm going to first say if I have visited these sell at row column then return remember
if we visit sell already then we should return early.
We don't want to do anything if we've already visit this cell so if we get past that little check right
there then we'll say Mark this cell as being visited.
Remember to keep track of what cells we visited.
We have the grid array.
So if we look at the grid at some index and we have a value false that means it has not been visited.
So when we say that we want to mark the seller's visit as visited that means we want to go in to that
grid array and update some element inside of it to true.
That's what makes a cell be marked as visited.
Then after that we're going to assemble randomly ordered list of neighbors
then for each neighbor.
So I bet you can guess we're gonna do some iteration there.
So for each neighbor we're gonna do a series of steps First off we're going to check to see if that
neighbor is out of bounds.
So at some point time with all this logic inside of here we might end up trying to visit like or be
at a cell say right here and if we try to look at all the neighbors around us Well obviously there's
above into the right but we might also kind of accidentally write into our code that there is a cell
below or to the left when of course there isn't one at all.
So to handle the case in which we accidently try to visit some cell it doesn't exist.
Well we just need to make sure that we add in some code to check and make sure we don't try to go in
some direction that doesn't exist.
So that's what this step right here is going to do after that we will check to see if we have visited
visited that neighbor Continue to next neighbor.
So we're going to end up with two checks to see if we have visited a cell that's just to a little bit
defensive coding.
We don't really have to add in two separate checks.
This is just for our benefit in case we ever make a mistake.
We can eventually remove one of the two checks if we really want to.
Then after that if we've gotten past these two checks and we're going to go ahead and visit that next
cell.
So we're going to say visit that next cell.
And of course before that we need to make sure that we remove a wall from either the horizontals array
or the verticals array and that depends upon whether we are moving to left right up or down and then
when we say right here visit that next cell.
That essentially means call our step through cell function again and pass in the row and column of the
cell that we are now trying to visit so that is it.
That is the entire algorithm right there.
That's pretty much all the steps.
So religious going to come back through.
And for each of these different comments we're going to add in like one two three or four lines of code.
So at the end of the day like I said the algorithm is really not the worst thing in the world as long
as you've got a sheet of paper that you can use to kind of diagram out what we're doing at each step.
It's now that we've got some guiding comments here.
Let's take a pause and start to fill in our implementation in the next video.